For the 1st/2nd/3rd phases (Apr 1998 - Mar 2004), the KAME
project had avoided implementing protocols which have
intellectual property rights(IPR) restrictions.

Our policy was that the KAME project implements only protocols which:
	- have no IPR restrictions
	- have IPR concerns, but are royalty-free
	- do not require any license for anyone AND are free of charge
          for usage

In other words, the KAME project does not implement protocols which:
	- require license for implementers or users, or
	- are not free of charge for usage

Here are reasons for this policy:

	- Software that the KAME project provides is free of charge.
          Thus, we cannot provide software which requires any payment.
	- The KAME project does not have a legal body to get such
          license when implementer is required to do so.
	- The KAME project cannot take care of users if they are
          required to get license.

There are some protocols which we once implemented but removed after
we noticed that they have IPR restrictions.

Two opinions were raised for our policy:
	- It is real waste to discard such implementations.
	- The KAME project should not be conservative if a patent is
          kinds of self defense.

Therefore, for the 4th phase (Apr 2004 - Mar 2006), we decided to try
negotiating with patent holders and finding a way to release our
implementations without IPR restrictions.

As of this writing, we notice that the following protocols have IPR 
restrictions.  We try to resolve IPR problems according to priority.

o TCP bug fixes (draft-ietf-tcpm-tcpsecure-00.txt)
	Priority: extremely high
	Implementation: done
	(probably this is *BSD problem, not KAME problem)

o Source Specific Multicast(SSM)
	Priority: high
	Implementation: done

o Modular Exponential(MODP)
	Priority: high
	Implementation: done

o Network Mobility(NEMO)
	Priority: high
	Implementation: not yet

o Internet Key Exchange version 2(IKEv2)
	Priority: high
	Implementation: ongoing

o Intra-Site Automatic Tunnel Addressing Protocol(ISATAP)
	Priority: high
	Implementation: done

o Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol(VRRP)
	Priority: medium
	Implementation: done

o SEcure Neighbor Discovery(SEND)
	Priority: low
	Implementation: not yet

o NAT Traversal(NAT-T)/UDP-ENCAP
	Priority: low
	Implementation: not yet

--かず
